Day-1 - 16th July 2026:

Learnings:

1. Print() shows things on screen. Strings means text go in " "; but numbers don't. both output looks identical but behave differently- numbers do math, strings just join

    eg print("100"+"05")--- output: 10005 ->(String) whereas print(100+5) --- output: 105 -> (number)

2. mkdir--- Make directory. Directory means folder in computer terminology. when we say mkdir we are saying computer to create a new folder with a name "AI journey"

3. cd--- means change directory. we are asking computer to walk into that specific folder

4. pwd--- print working directory. this helps when you are confused asking it show where am I standing currently

5. dir-- directory. Basically it lists out what all is inside the folder

6. While basically saving any file for computer to read it in python format we need to save file as .py

7. Git- Tool lives in our computer. Its job is to take snapshots and save our work

8. Git Hub- A website where we can showcase or save snapshots online and make it available to public/ recruiters to show case our work

Day-2 - 17th July 2026:

Learnings:

1. Today we have pushed our code live in git hub

2. We learned about git path init - add - commit - status

3. git init  = start a new Git repository here; from now on, watch this folder and track its changes.

4. git add = arrange people into the frame (get ready). git commit = press the shutter (snapshot actually taken)"-m" heps to add a message while saving the files

5. git push = upload my saved snapshots from my computer up to GitHub (the internet). This is what makes my code public and lights up the green square.

6. git status helps us to track the current status of files whether they have been added or not

Day-3 - 18th July 2026

Learnings:

1. Today we started of with python 

2. Variables: A variable is like a labelled box where you name an empty box with Sugar and store all the sugar and use it regularly when needed similarly in python we want to store some details under a box so we name it and call it as a variable.

eg: name = Hema
    age = 28
    print (name)
    print (age)

    output: 
    Hema
    28

3. Similarly not just names we can store numerics and also do some calculations as well 

eg: birth_year = 1998
current_year = 2026
age = current_year - birth_year
print (age)

4. We can combine and print string and number together using "+" instead we can convert it to a string

5. Use of f"my name is" before open quotes converts whole input to string called f-sting or formatted-string

6. {} in f-steing replaces variable with its value eg: {name} become Hema in output

7. Also we are building our 1st mini project "Personal intro card generator" refer to weekend_project1.py
